reference/configuration/routing.rst, before:

RoutingBundle Configuration
===========================

The RoutingBundle contains the Routing logic of the CMF and can be configured
under the ``cmf_routing`` key in your application configuration. When using
XML, you can use the ``http://cmf.symfony.com/schema/dic/routing`` namespace.

Configuration
-------------

chain
~~~~~

.. _reference-config-routing-chain_routers:

routers_by_id
.............

**prototype**: ``array`` **default**: ``{ router.default: 100 }``

This defines the routers to use in the chain. By default, only the Symfony2
router is used. The key is the name of the service and the value is the
priority. The chain is sorted from the highest to the lowest priority.

To add the ``DynamicRouter``, use the following configuration:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        cmf_routing:
            chain:
                routers_by_id:
                    cmf_routing.dynamic_router: 200
                    router.default: 100

    .. code-block:: xml

        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services">

            <config xmlns="http://cmf.symfony.com/schema/dic/routing">
                <chain>
                    <router-by-id id="cmf_routing.dynamic_router">200</router-by-id>
                    <router-by-id id="router.default">100</router-by-id>
                </chain>
            </config>

        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        $container->loadFromExtension('cmf_routing', array(
            'chain' => array(
                'routers_by_id' => array(
                    'cmf_routing.dynamic_router' => 200,
                    'router.default' => 100,
                ),
            ),
        ));

.. tip::

    You can also add routers to the chain using the ``cmf_routing.router`` tag
    on a service, learn more in ":ref:`routing-chain-router-tag`".

replace_symfony_router
......................

**type**: ``Boolean`` **default**: ``true``

If this option is set to ``false``, the default Symfony2 router will *not* be
overriden by the ``ChainRouter``. By default, the ``ChainRouter`` will
override the default Symfony2 router, but it will pass all requests to the
default router, because :ref:`no other routers were set <reference-config-routing-chain_routers>`.


.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        cmf_routing:
            chain:
                replace_symfony_router: true

    .. code-block:: xml

        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services">

            <config xmlns="http://cmf.symfony.com/schema/dic/routing">
                <cmf-routing>
                    <chain replace-symfony-router="true"/>
                </cmf-routing>
            </config>

        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        $container->loadFromExtension('cmf_routing', array(
            'chain' => array(
                'replace_symfony_router' => true,
            ),
        ));


.. _reference-config-routing-dynamic:

dynamic
~~~~~~~

enabled
.......

**type**: ``Boolean`` **default**: ``false``

Use this setting to activate the ``DynamicRouter``. This will create a
``cmf_routing.dynamic_router`` service which you can add to the chain.

generic_controller
..................

**type**: ``string`` **default**: ``null``

The controller to use when the route enhancers only determined the template but
no explicit controller. The value is the name of a controller using either the
``AcmeDemoBundle::Page::index`` or ``acme_demo.controller.page:indexAction``
notation.

If the :doc:`CoreBundle <../../bundles/core/index>` and
:doc:`ContentBundle <../../bundles/content/index>` are registered, this
defaults to ``cmf_content.controller:indexAction``.

default_controller
..................

**type**: ``string`` **default**: value of ``generic_controller``

The default controller to use if none of the enhancers found a controller. The
value is the name of a controller using either the
``AcmeDemoBundle::Page::index`` or ``acme_demo.controller.page:indexAction``
notation.

controllers_by_type
...................

**prototype**: ``array``

If the matching route has a ``type`` value in its defaults and no explicit
controller is set, the route is handled by the controller configured for that
type:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        cmf_routing:
            dynamic:
                controllers_by_type:
                    editable: acme_main.controller:editableAction

    .. code-block:: xml


        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services">

            <config xmlns="http://cmf.symfony.com/schema/dic/routing">
                <dynamic>
                    <controller-by-type type="editable">acme_main.controller:editableAction</controller-by-type>
                </dynamic>
            </config>

        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        $container->loadFromExtension('cmf_routing', array(
            'dynamic' => array(
                'controllers_by_type' => array(
                    'editable' => 'acme_main.controller:editableAction',
                ),
            ),
        ));

controllers_by_class
....................

**prototype**: ``array``

The controller to use when the matching route implements
``RouteObjectInterface`` and returns an object for ``getRouteContent()``.
This object is checked for being ``instanceof`` the class names in this map.
Instanceof is used instead of direct comparison to work with proxy classes and
other extending classes. The order in which the classes are specified, matters.
The first match is taken.

If matched, the controller will be set as ``_controller``, making Symfony2
choose this controller to handle the request.

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        cmf_routing:
            dynamic:
                controllers_by_class:
                    Symfony\Cmf\Bundle\ContentBundle\Document\StaticContent: cmf_content.controller:indexAction

    .. code-block:: xml

        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services">

            <config xmlns="http://cmf.symfony.com/schema/dic/routing">
                <dynamic>
                    <controller-by-class
                        class="Symfony\Cmf\Bundle\ContentBundle\Document\StaticContent">
                        cmf_content.controller:indexAction
                    </controller-by-class>
                </dynamic>
            </config>

        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        $container->loadFromExtension('cmf_routing', array(
            'dynamic' => array(
                'controllers_by_class' => array(
                    'Symfony\Cmf\Bundle\ContentBundle\Document\StaticContent' => 'cmf_content.controller:indexAction',
                ),
            ),
        ));

.. _reference-config-routing-template_by_class:

template_by_class
.................

**prototype**: ``array``

The template to use when the route implements ``RouteObjectInterface`` and
returns an object for ``getRouteContent()``. This object is checked for being
``instanceof`` the class names in this map. Instanceof is used instead of
direct comparison to work with proxy classes and other extending classes. The
order in which the classes are specified, matters. The first match is taken.

If matched, the template will be set as ``_template`` in the defaults and
unless another mapping specifies a controller, the ``generic_controller``
setting is set as controller.

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        cmf_routing:
            dynamic:
                templates_by_class:
                    Symfony\Cmf\Bundle\ContentBundle\Document\StaticContent: CmfContentBundle:StaticContent:index.html.twig

    .. code-block:: xml

        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services">

            <config xmlns="http://cmf.symfony.com/schema/dic/routing">
                <dynamic>
                    <template-by-class
                        class="Symfony\Cmf\Bundle\ContentBundle\Document\StaticContent">
                        CmfContentBundle:StaticContent:index.html.twig
                    </template-by-class>
                </dynamic>
            </config>

        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        $container->loadFromExtension('cmf_routing', array(
            'dynamic' => array(
                'templates_by_class' => array(
                    'Symfony\Cmf\Bundle\ContentBundle\Document\StaticContent' => 'CmfContentBundle:StaticContent:index.html.twig',
                ),
            ),
        ));

persistence
...........

.. _reference-configuration-routing-persistence-phpcr:

phpcr
"""""

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # app/config/config.yml
        cmf_routing:
            dynamic:
                persistence:
                    phpcr:
                        enabled: false
                        manager_name: ~
                        route_basepath: /cms/routes
                        content_basepath: /cms/content
                        use_sonata_admin: auto

    .. code-block:: xml

        <!-- app/config/config.xml -->
        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services">
            <config xmlns="http://cmf.symfony.com/schema/dic/routing">
                <dynamic>
                    <persistence>
                        <phpcr
                            enabled="false"
                            manager-name="null"
                            route-basepath="/cms/routes"
                            content-basepath="/cms/content"
                            use-sonata-admin="auto"
                        />
                    </persistence>
                </dynamic>
            </config>
        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        $container->loadFromExtension('cmf_routing', array(
            'dynamic' => array(
                'persistence' => array(
                    'phpcr' => array(
                        'enabled' => false,
                        'manager_name' => null,
                        'route_basepath' => '/cms/routes',
                        'content_basepath' => '/cms/content',
                        'use_sonata_admin' => 'auto',
                    ),
                ),
            ),
        ));


enabled
*******

.. include:: partials/persistence_phpcr_enabled.rst.inc

manager_name
************

.. include:: partials/persistence_phpcr_manager_name.rst.inc

route_basepath
**************

**type**: ``string`` **default**: ``/cms/routes``

The basepath for routes in the PHPCR tree.

If the :doc:`CoreBundle <../../bundles/core/index>` is registered, this will default to
``%cmf_core.persistence.phpcr.basepath%/routes``.

content_basepath
****************

**type**: ``content_basepath`` **default**: ``/cms/content``

The basepath for content objects in the PHPCR tree. This information is used
with the sonata admin to offer the correct subtree to select content documents.

If the :doc:`CoreBundle <../../bundles/core/index>` is registered, this will default to
``%cmf_core.persistence.phpcr.basepath%/content``.

use_sonata_admin
****************

**type**: ``enum`` **valid values**: ``true|false|auto`` **default**: ``auto``

If ``true``, the admin classes for the routing are loaded and available for
sonata. If set to ``auto``, the admin services are activated only if the
SonataPhpcrAdminBundle is present.

.. note::

    To see the route administration on the sonata dashboard, you still need to
    configure it to show the items ``cmf_routing.route_admin`` and
    ``cmf_routing.redirect_route_admin``.

If the :doc:`CoreBundle <../../bundles/core/index>` is registered, this will
default to the value of ``cmf_core.persistence.phpcr.use_sonata_admin``.

orm
"""

enabled
*******

**type**: ``boolean`` **default**: ``false``

If ``true``, the ORM is included in the service container.

manager_name
************

**type**: ``string`` **default**: ``null``

The name of the Doctrine Manager to use.

uri_filter_regexp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**type**: ``string`` **default**: ``""``

Sets a pattern to which the Route must match before attempting to get any
routes from a database. This can improve the performance a lot when only a
subsection of your site is using the dynamic router.

route_provider_service_id
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**type**: ``string``

When none of the persistence layers is enabled, a route provider service *must*
be provided in order to get the routes. This is done by using the
``route_provider_service_id`` setting.

route_filters_by_id
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**prototype**: ``array``

This configures the :ref:`route filters <components-routing-filters>` to use
for filtering the route collection. The key is the id of the service and the
value is the priority. The filters are sorted from the highest to the lowest
priority.

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        cmf_routing:
            dynamic:
                route_filters_by_id:
                    acme_main.routing.foo_filter: 100

    .. code-block:: xml


        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services">

            <config xmlns="http://cmf.symfony.com/schema/dic/routing">
                <dynamic>
                    <route-filter-by-id id="acme_main.routing.foo_filter">100</route-filter-by-id>
                </dynamic>
            </config>

        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        $container->loadFromExtension('cmf_routing', array(
            'dynamic' => array(
                'route_filters_by_id' => array(
                    'acme_main.routing.foo_filter' => 100,
                ),
            ),
        ));

content_repository_service_id
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**type**: ``scalar`` **default**: ``null``

To use a content repository when creating URLs, this option can be set to the
content repository service.

.. note::

    If PHPCR is enabled, it'll automatically use the phpcr content repository.
    This can be overriden by this option. ORM doesn't have a content
    repository at the moment.

locales
~~~~~~~

**type**: ``array`` **default**:

To enable multilanguage, set the valid locales in this option.

If the :doc:`CoreBundle <../../bundles/core/index>` is registered, this will default to the value
of ``cmf_core.locales``.

Commit message:

WIP documentation for cleaned up routing

reference/configuration/routing.rst, after:

RoutingBundle Configuration
===========================

The RoutingBundle contains the Routing logic of the CMF and can be configured
under the ``cmf_routing`` key in your application configuration. When using
XML, you can use the ``http://cmf.symfony.com/schema/dic/routing`` namespace.

Configuration
-------------

chain
~~~~~

.. _reference-config-routing-chain_routers:

routers_by_id
.............

**prototype**: ``array`` **default**: ``{ router.default: 100 }``

This defines the routers to use in the chain. By default, only the Symfony2
router is used. The key is the name of the service and the value is the
priority. The chain is sorted from the highest to the lowest priority.

To add the ``DynamicRouter``, use the following configuration:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        cmf_routing:
            chain:
                routers_by_id:
                    cmf_routing.dynamic_router: 200
                    router.default: 100

    .. code-block:: xml

        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services">

            <config xmlns="http://cmf.symfony.com/schema/dic/routing">
                <chain>
                    <router-by-id id="cmf_routing.dynamic_router">200</router-by-id>
                    <router-by-id id="router.default">100</router-by-id>
                </chain>
            </config>

        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        $container->loadFromExtension('cmf_routing', array(
            'chain' => array(
                'routers_by_id' => array(
                    'cmf_routing.dynamic_router' => 200,
                    'router.default' => 100,
                ),
            ),
        ));

.. tip::

    You can also add routers to the chain using the ``cmf_routing.router`` tag
    on a service, learn more in ":ref:`routing-chain-router-tag`".

replace_symfony_router
......................

**type**: ``Boolean`` **default**: ``true``

If this option is set to ``false``, the default Symfony2 router will *not* be
overriden by the ``ChainRouter``. By default, the ``ChainRouter`` will
override the default Symfony2 router, but it will pass all requests to the
default router, because :ref:`no other routers were set <reference-config-routing-chain_routers>`.


.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        cmf_routing:
            chain:
                replace_symfony_router: true

    .. code-block:: xml

        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services">

            <config xmlns="http://cmf.symfony.com/schema/dic/routing">
                <cmf-routing>
                    <chain replace-symfony-router="true"/>
                </cmf-routing>
            </config>

        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        $container->loadFromExtension('cmf_routing', array(
            'chain' => array(
                'replace_symfony_router' => true,
            ),
        ));


.. _reference-config-routing-dynamic:

dynamic
~~~~~~~

enabled
.......

**type**: ``Boolean`` **default**: ``false``

Use this setting to activate the ``DynamicRouter``. This will create a
``cmf_routing.dynamic_router`` service which you can add to the chain.

generic_controller
..................

**type**: ``string`` **default**: ``null``

The controller to use when the route enhancers only determined the template but
no explicit controller. The value is the name of a controller using either the
``AcmeDemoBundle::Page::index`` or ``acme_demo.controller.page:indexAction``
notation.

If the :doc:`CoreBundle <../../bundles/core/index>` and
:doc:`ContentBundle <../../bundles/content/index>` are registered, this
defaults to ``cmf_content.controller:indexAction``.

default_controller
..................

**type**: ``string`` **default**: value of ``generic_controller``

The default controller to use if none of the enhancers found a controller. The
value is the name of a controller using either the
``AcmeDemoBundle::Page::index`` or ``acme_demo.controller.page:indexAction``
notation.

controllers_by_type
...................

**prototype**: ``array``

If the matching route has a ``type`` value in its defaults and no explicit
controller is set, the route is handled by the controller configured for that
type:

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        cmf_routing:
            dynamic:
                controllers_by_type:
                    editable: acme_main.controller:editableAction

    .. code-block:: xml


        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services">

            <config xmlns="http://cmf.symfony.com/schema/dic/routing">
                <dynamic>
                    <controller-by-type type="editable">acme_main.controller:editableAction</controller-by-type>
                </dynamic>
            </config>

        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        $container->loadFromExtension('cmf_routing', array(
            'dynamic' => array(
                'controllers_by_type' => array(
                    'editable' => 'acme_main.controller:editableAction',
                ),
            ),
        ));

controllers_by_class
....................

**prototype**: ``array``

The controller to use when the matching route implements
``RouteObjectInterface`` and returns an object for ``getRouteContent()``.
This object is checked for being ``instanceof`` the class names in this map.
Instanceof is used instead of direct comparison to work with proxy classes and
other extending classes. The order in which the classes are specified, matters.
The first match is taken.

If matched, the controller will be set as ``_controller``, making Symfony2
choose this controller to handle the request.

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        cmf_routing:
            dynamic:
                controllers_by_class:
                    Symfony\Cmf\Bundle\ContentBundle\Document\StaticContent: cmf_content.controller:indexAction

    .. code-block:: xml

        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services">

            <config xmlns="http://cmf.symfony.com/schema/dic/routing">
                <dynamic>
                    <controller-by-class
                        class="Symfony\Cmf\Bundle\ContentBundle\Document\StaticContent">
                        cmf_content.controller:indexAction
                    </controller-by-class>
                </dynamic>
            </config>

        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        $container->loadFromExtension('cmf_routing', array(
            'dynamic' => array(
                'controllers_by_class' => array(
                    'Symfony\Cmf\Bundle\ContentBundle\Document\StaticContent' => 'cmf_content.controller:indexAction',
                ),
            ),
        ));

.. _reference-config-routing-template_by_class:

template_by_class
.................

**prototype**: ``array``

The template to use when the route implements ``RouteObjectInterface`` and
returns an object for ``getRouteContent()``. This object is checked for being
``instanceof`` the class names in this map. Instanceof is used instead of
direct comparison to work with proxy classes and other extending classes. The
order in which the classes are specified, matters. The first match is taken.

If matched, the template will be set as ``_template`` in the defaults and
unless another mapping specifies a controller, the ``generic_controller``
setting is set as controller.

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        cmf_routing:
            dynamic:
                templates_by_class:
                    Symfony\Cmf\Bundle\ContentBundle\Document\StaticContent: CmfContentBundle:StaticContent:index.html.twig

    .. code-block:: xml

        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services">

            <config xmlns="http://cmf.symfony.com/schema/dic/routing">
                <dynamic>
                    <template-by-class
                        class="Symfony\Cmf\Bundle\ContentBundle\Document\StaticContent">
                        CmfContentBundle:StaticContent:index.html.twig
                    </template-by-class>
                </dynamic>
            </config>

        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        $container->loadFromExtension('cmf_routing', array(
            'dynamic' => array(
                'templates_by_class' => array(
                    'Symfony\Cmf\Bundle\ContentBundle\Document\StaticContent' => 'CmfContentBundle:StaticContent:index.html.twig',
                ),
            ),
        ));

persistence
...........

.. _reference-configuration-routing-persistence-phpcr:

phpcr
"""""

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        # app/config/config.yml
        cmf_routing:
            dynamic:
                persistence:
                    phpcr:
                        enabled: false
                        manager_name: ~
                        route_basepath: /cms/routes
                        content_basepath: /cms/content
                        use_sonata_admin: auto

    .. code-block:: xml

        <!-- app/config/config.xml -->
        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services">
            <config xmlns="http://cmf.symfony.com/schema/dic/routing">
                <dynamic>
                    <persistence>
                        <phpcr
                            enabled="false"
                            manager-name="null"
                            route-basepath="/cms/routes"
                            content-basepath="/cms/content"
                            use-sonata-admin="auto"
                        />
                    </persistence>
                </dynamic>
            </config>
        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        $container->loadFromExtension('cmf_routing', array(
            'dynamic' => array(
                'persistence' => array(
                    'phpcr' => array(
                        'enabled' => false,
                        'manager_name' => null,
                        'route_basepath' => '/cms/routes',
                        'content_basepath' => '/cms/content',
                        'use_sonata_admin' => 'auto',
                    ),
                ),
            ),
        ));


enabled
*******

.. include:: partials/persistence_phpcr_enabled.rst.inc

manager_name
************

.. include:: partials/persistence_phpcr_manager_name.rst.inc

route_basepath
**************

**type**: ``string`` **default**: ``/cms/routes``

The basepath for routes in the PHPCR tree.

If the :doc:`CoreBundle <../../bundles/core/index>` is registered, this will default to
``%cmf_core.persistence.phpcr.basepath%/routes``.

content_basepath
****************

**type**: ``content_basepath`` **default**: ``/cms/content``

The basepath for content objects in the PHPCR tree. This information is used
with the sonata admin to offer the correct subtree to select content documents.

If the :doc:`CoreBundle <../../bundles/core/index>` is registered, this will default to
``%cmf_core.persistence.phpcr.basepath%/content``.

use_sonata_admin
****************

**type**: ``enum`` **valid values**: ``true|false|auto`` **default**: ``auto``

If ``true``, the admin classes for the routing are loaded and available for
sonata. If set to ``auto``, the admin services are activated only if the
SonataPhpcrAdminBundle is present.

.. note::

    To see the route administration on the sonata dashboard, you still need to
    configure it to show the items ``cmf_routing.route_admin`` and
    ``cmf_routing.redirect_route_admin``.

If the :doc:`CoreBundle <../../bundles/core/index>` is registered, this will
default to the value of ``cmf_core.persistence.phpcr.use_sonata_admin``.

orm
"""

enabled
*******

**type**: ``boolean`` **default**: ``false``

If ``true``, the ORM is included in the service container.

manager_name
************

**type**: ``string`` **default**: ``null``

The name of the Doctrine Manager to use.

uri_filter_regexp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**type**: ``string`` **default**: ``""``

Sets a pattern to which the Route must match before attempting to get any
routes from a database. This can improve the performance a lot when only a
subsection of your site is using the dynamic router.

route_provider_service_id
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**type**: ``string``

When none of the persistence layers is enabled, a route provider service *must*
be provided in order to get the routes. This is done by using the
``route_provider_service_id`` setting.

route_filters_by_id
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**prototype**: ``array``

This configures the :ref:`route filters <components-routing-filters>` to use
for filtering the route collection. The key is the id of the service and the
value is the priority. The filters are sorted from the highest to the lowest
priority.

.. configuration-block::

    .. code-block:: yaml

        cmf_routing:
            dynamic:
                route_filters_by_id:
                    acme_main.routing.foo_filter: 100

    .. code-block:: xml


        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
        <container xmlns="http://symfony.com/schema/dic/services">

            <config xmlns="http://cmf.symfony.com/schema/dic/routing">
                <dynamic>
                    <route-filter-by-id id="acme_main.routing.foo_filter">100</route-filter-by-id>
                </dynamic>
            </config>

        </container>

    .. code-block:: php

        $container->loadFromExtension('cmf_routing', array(
            'dynamic' => array(
                'route_filters_by_id' => array(
                    'acme_main.routing.foo_filter' => 100,
                ),
            ),
        ));

content_repository_service_id
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**type**: ``scalar`` **default**: ``null``

To use a content repository when creating URLs, this option can be set to the
content repository service.

.. note::

    If PHPCR is enabled, it'll automatically use the phpcr content repository.
    This can be overriden by this option. ORM doesn't have a content
    repository at the moment.

.. _reference-config-routing-locales:

locales
~~~~~~~

**type**: ``array`` **default**: array()

To enable multilanguage, set the valid locales in this option.

If the :doc:`CoreBundle <../../bundles/core/index>` is registered, this will default to the value
of ``cmf_core.locales``.

match_implicit_locale
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**type**: ``boolean`` **default**: true

Whether the route provider should look for routes without the locale.

For example, when the ``locales`` are ``de`` and ``en`` and the request has the
url ``de/my/path``, the route provider will not only look for ``de/my/path``,
``de/my`` and ``de`` but also for ``my/path`` and ``my``. This allows to use a
single route for multiple languages. This is used for example by the
:doc:`SimpleCms <../../bundles/simple_cms/index>`.

If you do not need this, disabling the option will gain some performance.

auto_locale_pattern
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**type**: ``boolean`` **default**: true

If you enable this option, the LocaleListener will ensure that routes that have
no locale in their static pattern get the ``auto_locale_pattern`` option set.

This is ignored if there are no ``locales`` configured. It makes no sense to
enable this option when ``match_implicit_locale`` is disabled.
